Amdahl code, redux (#411)
carpentries-incubator/hpc-intro: _episodes/15-transferring-files.md

To _upload to_ another computer:

```
{{ site.local.prompt }} scp local_file {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}:remote_path
```
{: .language-bash}

Note that everything after the `:` is relative to our home directory on the
remote computer. We can leave it at that if we don't have a more specific

> destination in mind.

Author: Looks good! Minor quibble: `it's` --> `it is` != `its`. So, please revise "(with it's original name)" to "(with its original name)"

> not _outbound_.
> This means that an authenticated user can send a file to a cluster machine,
> but a cluster machine cannot retrieve files from a user's machine or the
> open Internet.
>
> Try downloading the file directly. Note that it may well fail, and that's
> OK!
>
> > ## Commands
> >
> > ```
> > {{ site.local.prompt }} ssh {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}
> > {{ site.remote.prompt }} curl -O https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/amdahl/tarball/main -o amdahl.tar.gz
> > # or
> > {{ site.remote.prompt }} wget https://github.com/hpc-carpentry/amdahl/tarball/main -O amdahl.tar.gz
> > ```
> > {: .language-bash}
> {: .solution}
>
> Did it work? If not, what does the terminal output tell you about what
> happened?
{: .discussion}

## Transferring a Directory

If you went ahead and extracted the tarball, don't worry! `scp` can handle
entire directories as well as individual files.

To copy a whole directory, we add the `-r` flag for "**r**ecursive": copy the
item specified, and every item below it, and every item below those... until it
reaches the bottom of the directory tree rooted at the folder name you
provided.

```

> {{ site.local.prompt }} scp -r hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}:~/

Author: Good catch. Reworked the sequencing so this makes more sense in fac84f2.

> commonly used options:
>
> ```
> {{ site.local.prompt }} rsync -avP amdahl.tar.gz {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}:
> ```
> {: .language-bash}
>
> The options are:
>
> * `-a` (**a**rchive) to preserve file timestamps, permissions, and folders,
>    among other things; implies recursion
> * `-v` (**v**erbose) to get verbose output to help monitor the transfer
> * `-P` (partial/progress) to preserve partially transferred files in case
>   of an interruption and also displays the progress of the transfer.
>
> To recursively copy a directory, we can use the same options:
>
> ```

> > {{ site.local.prompt }} rsync -avP hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}:~/

Author: Yes, good catch! 7b9c78e introduces that as a tid-bit later on, leaving the upload destination blank at first.

it appears somebody took a folder named "hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b,"
wrapped up all its contents in a single file with `tar`,
then compressed that archive with `gzip` to save space.
Let's check using `tar` with the `-t` flag, which prints the "**t**able of
contents" without unpacking the file, specified by `-f <filename>`,
on the remote computer.
Note that you can concatenate the two flags, instead of writing `-t -f` separately.

```
{{ site.local.prompt }} ssh {{ site.remote.user }}@{{ site.remote.login }}
{{ site.remote.prompt }} tar -tf amdahl.tar.gz
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/.github/
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/.github/workflows/
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/.github/workflows/python-publish.yml
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/.gitignore
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/LICENSE
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/README.md
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/amdahl/
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/amdahl/__init__.py
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/amdahl/__main__.py
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/amdahl/amdahl.py
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/requirements.txt
hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/setup.py
```
{: .language-bash}

> This shows a folder which contains a few files. Let's see about that

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This shows the folder containing the files is actually called
`hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b` (not `amdahl` as we might have
expected) and contains a few files. Let's see about that
```

> hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/requirements.txt
> hpc-carpentry-amdahl-46c9b4b/setup.py
> ```
> {: .output}
>
> Note that we did not need to type out `-x -v -z -f`, thanks to flag
> concatenation, though the command works identically either way --
> so long as the concatenated list ends with `f`, because the next string
> must specify the name of the file to extract.
>
> We couldn't concatenate `-C` because the next string must name the directory.
>
> Long options (`--strip-components`) also can't be concatenated.
>
> Since order doesn't generally matter, an equivalent command would be
> ```
> {{ site.remote.prompt }} tar -xvzC amdahl -f amdahl.tar.gz --strip-components=1
> ```
> {: .language-bash}
{: .discussion}

Check the size of the extracted directory, and compare to the compressed
file size:

```
{{ site.remote.prompt }} du -sh amdahl
48K    amdahl
```
{: .language-bash}

Text files (including Python source code) compress nicely:
the "tarball" is one-sixth the total size of the raw data!

If you want to reverse the process -- compressing raw data instead of
extracting it -- set a `c` flag instead of `x`, set the archive filename,
then provide a directory to compress:

```

> {{ site.local.prompt }} tar -cvzf compressed_code.tar.gz amdahl

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{ site.local.prompt }} tar -cvzf amdahl.tar.gz amdahl
```
Might as well use the "best practice" we indicated already
